# CowDatabase
The created database contains RGB-D data and manual measurements for 103 Hereford cattle, and is open and accessible to the research community.

Data from 103 cattle were collected on August 15th, 2019. Hereford cattle belonged to a private farm in the Nizhny Novgorod region, Russia. The remarkable characteristics of the breed are uniformity of color, early maturity and ability to thrive under adverse conditions. On the day of data collection, all selected cows were gathered at the feed fences in a separate area for manual body measurements and image recording. Nine body measurements were manually taken by an expert using ordinary measuring either tape or stick and recorded in centimeters.

The estimated body measurements were as follows: • Withers height: vertical distance from the highest point of the shoulder (withers) to the ground surface at the level of the forelegs. • Hip height: vertical distance from the highest point of the hip bones to the ground surface at the level of the hind legs. • Chest depth: vertical distance from the back to the floor of the chest at the shallowest part of the chest. • Heart girth: circumference of the body at a point immediately posterior to the front leg and shoulder and perpendicular to the body axis. • Ilium width: distance between the outermost points of the ilium bones perpendicular to the back. • Hip joint width: distance between the hip joint points perpendicular to the back. • Oblique body length: distance from the anterior extremity of the humerus to the posterior internal extremity of the ischium. • Hip length: distance from the outer point of the ilium bone to the posterior internal extremity of the ischium. • Chest width: distance between the posterior corner points of the shoulder perpendicular to the back.

The created database is open and accessible to the research community. The dataset contains raw depth maps, RGB images, point clouds for left, right, and top views, matrices of transfomation (left to top, right to top) (the size of depth and RGB images are 512 × 424 and 1920 × 1080 pixels, respectively; point clouds were obtained taking into account the internal parameters of cameras). The database also contains manual measurements of the body parameters.

Table with manual measurements shows these measurements; that is, weight (WT), withers height (WH), hip height (HH), chest depth (CD), heart girth (HG), ilium width (IW), hip joint width (HJW), oblique body length (OBL), hip length (HL), and chest width (CW).
